README.md, before:

# FRAME-FM
**Framework for the Rapid development of Environmental Foundation Models**

FRAME-FM is an open-source software framework designed to enable the fast, scalable, and accessible development of Foundation Models (FMs) for large-scale environmental datasets, including petabyte-scale archives held by the UK’s NERC Environmental Data Service (EDS).

The project addresses a critical gap: while environmental data archives are vast and information-rich, they are difficult to process directly. FRAME-FM lowers the barrier to using these datasets by providing standardised workflows, infrastructure, and tools that allow users to train, evaluate, fine-tune, and publish foundation models efficiently.
<details>
  <summary><strong>📚 Table of Contents</strong></summary>

---

### 🔧 Core Documentation
- [Environment Setup](#environment-setup-from-pyprojecttoml)
- [Hydra Configuration System](./configs/configs_README.md)

### 🧠 Code Structure
- [Model Code](./src/FRAME_FM/model_code/models_README.md)
- [Data Loaders](./src/FRAME_FM/dataloaders/dataloaders_README.md)
- [Training Pipeline](./src/FRAME_FM/training/training_README.md)
- [Utilities](./src/FRAME_FM/utils/utils_README.md)

### 📊 Experiments & Logging
- [Experiment Configuration](./configs/experiment/experiment_README.md)
- [Logging (MLflow)](./configs/logging/logging_README.md)

### 📒 Notebooks
- [Jupyter Notebooks](./notebooks/notebooks_README.md)

---

</details>



## Environment Setup from `pyproject.toml`
### 🚀 Setting Up the Environment (from pyproject.toml)

This project uses **uv** for dependency management.  
If you already have the repository (including `pyproject.toml` and `uv.lock`), use the steps below to recreate the full environment.

## 1. Create and activate a virtual environment

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

## 2. Install dependencies with uv

```bash
pip install uv
uv sync
```

## 3. Add Additional Dependencies
Additional sources, such as `torchgeo` are installable sperately - so as to reduce wasting storage.

To install them, either run the relevant `uv add` command such as:
```bash
uv add torchgeo
```
OR you can install all sources using the `data_requirements.txt`
```bash
uv pip install -r data_requirements.txt
```




---

<sub>⚠️ Some README files in this repository were generated using ChatGPT.  
All generated text has been manually reviewed to ensure accuracy and project-specific relevance.</sub>

Commit message:

UV as only places for packages (#101)
* UV as only places for packages

GitHub actions, extra libs all now using uv

* adding alternative notebooks

* changes based on deployment pathways

* Configure PyTorch sources in pyproject.toml

Add custom sources and indices for PyTorch and torchvision based on platform, this is to get around the cpu-only issues

* downgrade PyTorch CUDA version from 128 to 126

* changes to uv branch

* update for to local test

now add packages

README.md, after:

# FRAME-FM
**Framework for the Rapid development of Environmental Foundation Models**

FRAME-FM is an open-source software framework designed to enable the fast, scalable, and accessible development of Foundation Models (FMs) for large-scale environmental datasets, including petabyte-scale archives held by the UK’s NERC Environmental Data Service (EDS).

The project addresses a critical gap: while environmental data archives are vast and information-rich, they are difficult to process directly. FRAME-FM lowers the barrier to using these datasets by providing standardised workflows, infrastructure, and tools that allow users to train, evaluate, fine-tune, and publish foundation models efficiently.
<details>
  <summary><strong>📚 Table of Contents</strong></summary>

---

### 🔧 Core Documentation
- [Environment Setup](#environment-setup-from-pyprojecttoml)
- [Hydra Configuration System](./configs/configs_README.md)

### 🧠 Code Structure
- [Model Code](./src/FRAME_FM/model_code/models_README.md)
- [Data Loaders](./src/FRAME_FM/dataloaders/dataloaders_README.md)
- [Training Pipeline](./src/FRAME_FM/training/training_README.md)
- [Utilities](./src/FRAME_FM/utils/utils_README.md)

### 📊 Experiments & Logging
- [Experiment Configuration](./configs/experiment/experiment_README.md)
- [Logging (MLflow)](./configs/logging/logging_README.md)

### 📒 Notebooks
- [Jupyter Notebooks](./notebooks/notebooks_README.md)
- [Marimo Notebooks](./notebooks/marimo_notebooks_README.md)

---

</details>



## Environment Setup from `pyproject.toml`
### 🚀 Setting Up the Environment (from pyproject.toml)

This project uses **uv** for dependency management.  
If you already have the repository (including `pyproject.toml` and `uv.lock`), use the steps below to recreate the full environment.

## 0. JASMIN
if your are running on the UK science compute service (jasmin.ac.uk)`
once logged in run
```bash
module load jaspy
```


## 1. Install uv

```bash
pip install uv
```

## 2. Create virutal environment and install dependencies with uv 

```bash
uv venv
uv sync
```

## 3. Add Additional Dependencies
Additional sources, such as `torchgeo` are installable sperately - so as to reduce wasting storage.

To install them, either run the relevant `uv add` command such as:
```bash
uv add torchgeo --optional data
```
OR you can install all sources using the `data` extra;
```bash
uv sync --extra data
```




---

<sub>⚠️ Some README files in this repository were generated using ChatGPT.  
All generated text has been manually reviewed to ensure accuracy and project-specific relevance.</sub>
